Acdp 224 (#7)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: ActindoWorkFlow/Overview/02_WorkflowProcessElements.md

A place can hold any number of tokens, including none. A token is a container carrying data, which is needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more or less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flows through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).

Special types of places are the start and end place. Every workflow starts with a single place and ends with a single place. For detailed information, see [Start and end place](#start-and-end-place).

When clicking a place, it becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

![Settings side bar](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/SettingsSideBar01.png "[Settings side bar]")

The place settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the place settings. The following fields are displayed:

  - *Key*  

>   Place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within a version of a workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within the workflow version.
```

When adding a new action, places for mandatory input ports are automatically inserted, whereas optional input ports are displayed with a ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button.

When clicking an action, it becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

![Settings side bar](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/SettingsSideBar02.png "[Settings side bar]")

The action settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the action settings. The following fields are displayed:

  - *Key*  

>    Action key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within a version of a workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Action key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within the workflow version.
```

A place can also contain a black square displaying a number. This number specifies the number of tokens waiting to be processed at that place. This could happen, for example, because a token running in parallel has not been received at a particular stage of the process, but also because all tokens have been processed and are waiting for further action at the end place.

## Start and end place

![Start and end place](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Workflow.png "[Start and end place]")

Every workflow starts with a single start place and ends with a single end place, which are a special type of places.

The start place can only hold one token. A token is a container carrying data, which is needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more or less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flows through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).

> The end place is the final result of all actions executed in the workflow and can contain any number of tokens, but at least one. A process is marked as *Done*, as soon as one token has reached the end place. A new subprocess can be linked subsequently to the end place. For detailed information about creating the start and end places, see [Create a workflow](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-a-workflow).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The end place is the final result of all actions executed in the workflow and can contain any number of tokens, but at least one. A process is marked as *Done* when all tokens have reached the end place. For detailed information about creating the start and end places, see [Create a workflow](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-a-workflow).
```

### Start place

![Start place](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/StartPlace.png "[Start place]")

The start place is the initial stage of the workflow. It is represented by a circle with an incoming arc pointing towards an input port of the first action. Similarly to a place, when clicking it, the start place becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

The start place settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the start place settings. The following fields are displayed:

  - *Key*  

>   Start place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within a version of a workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Start place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within the workflow version.
```

>   Start place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be system wide unique.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Start place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within a version of a workflow.
```

  - *Data container*  
  Use this field to define the data type to be used in the start place. If necessary, click the ![Delete](/Assets/Icons/Cross02.png "[Delete]") (Delete) button to display the whole list of available data types. Enter a search text for the desired data type. The list of actions is filtered for your search text as you type. Select the ![Radio button](/Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radio button]") (Radio button) corresponding to the appropriate option.

### End place

![End place](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/EndPlace.png "[End place]")

> The end place is the final stage of the workflow. It is represented by a circle with an outcoming arrow coming from one or more actions being executed in the last stage(s) of the workflow. Similarly to a place, when clicking it, the start place becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The end place is the final stage of the workflow. It is represented by a circle with an outcoming arrow coming from one or more actions being executed in the last stage(s) of the workflow. Similarly to a place, when clicking it, the end place becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.
```

The end place settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the end place settings. The following fields are displayed:

  - *Key*  

>   End place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be system wide unique.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  End place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be unique within a version of a workflow.
```

![Workflow](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Workflow.png "[Workflow]")

The *Workflows* module allows customers to model their own processes to match their companies structure. Such a workflow consists of a number of fixed elements that are chained together, each of them having specific characteristics. These elements are used to design the workflow, which can be edited as necessary according to customer needs. For detailed information, see [Manage workflows](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md).

A workflow runs from a fixed start place to a fixed end place, which can be in turn linked to another workflow. A workflow must contain at least one transition between the start and the end place, which are a special type of places. The transitions are linked through places with each other, connecting the corresponding transition input and output ports. All these elements are described more in detail below.

The *Workflows* module is linked to different system modules and plugins, such as *Invoicing*, *Email*, *OmniChannels*, *Tasks*, among others. The transitions available to create workflows depend on the modules installed in the system.

> Since business processes, and the workflows that map them, evolve over time, workflows can be versioned. While every workflow can be uniquely identified through its key, there may be any number of versions of it. However, at a given point in time, only one of those versions may be published. When a process for a given workflow is to be started, that published version of the workflow is used. This allows to keep modelling a certain workflow without interrupting the daily business.

Author: Den Teil nochmal prüfen und anpassen:
Es können mehrere Versionen veröffentlicht sein. Für neue Prozesse wird immer die höchste veröffentlichte Version des Workflows herangezogen. Bereits angestoßene/laufende Prozesse werden auf Grundlage der Workflows ausgeführt, die zum Zeitpunkt der Initialisierung die höchste veröffentlichte Version hatten.

## Transitions

![Transition](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Action.png "[Transition]")

The transitions act as building blocks that are chained together through places to configure a workflow. They are represented by a rectangle.

> All transitions contain a certain, predefined number of input and output ports, at least 1 of each, which can be mandatory or optional. For detailed information about the types of input/output ports, see [Input and output ports](#input-and-output-ports). For a transition to be executable in a workflow process, all connected inputs and outputs, mandatory or optional, must be fed with data.

Author: ```suggestion
All transitions contain a certain, predefined number of input and output ports, at least 1 of each, which can be mandatory or optional. For detailed information about the types of input/output ports, see [Input and output ports](#input-and-output-ports). 
```
diese info gehört zu den actions, nicht zu den transitions

The transitions available to create workflows depend on the modules installed in the system. Every API end point of the modules automatically becomes available as a transition and can be used in any workflow. However, you can also build your own transitions independent from the API. Some transition may have configuration options, but most of them do not.

When a transition is executed in a workflow process, it is called action or process action, that is, an action is the actual execution of a configured transition. As a result, one transition may be associated with multiple process actions. For detailed information, see [Actions](#actions).

> When adding a new transition, places for mandatory input ports are automatically inserted, whereas optional input ports are displayed with a ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button.

Author: Reihenfolge der Infos im Abschnitt "Transitions" nochmal prüfen und anpassen, ist etwas durcheinander...

When clicking a transition, it becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

![Settings side bar](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/SettingsSideBar02.png "[Settings side bar]")

The transition settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the transition settings. The following fields are displayed:

> 

Author: nochmal alle folgenden Felder prüfen -> es geht um die transitions, nicht actions!

## Places

![Place](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Place.png "[Place]")

A place is an intermediate stage in the workflow and is represented by a circle, usually provided with incoming and/or outcoming arcs.

Places serve as link between two transitions, joining an output port from the previous transition to the corresponding input port of the following transition. Places linking mandatory input/output ports are displayed by default and cannot be deleted. Additional places can be added by clicking on the ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button next to the optional input/output port. For detailed information about the types of input/output ports, see [Input and output ports](#input-and-output-ports). All places included in a process must be linked to input/output ports. Otherwise, the process cannot be initiated (an error is displayed in the workflow editor).

> A place can hold any number of tokens, including none. A token is a container carrying data, which is needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more or less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flows through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).

Author: ```suggestion
A place can hold any number of tokens, including none. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).
```

All transitions contain a certain, predefined number of input and output ports, at least one of each. They are defined with a descriptive name, such as origin, data or destination.

Input ports are positioned to the left of the transition and output ports are positioned to the right of the transition. Both are represented by a square.

Both, input and output ports, can be of two types:

- **Mandatory**  
  Mandatory ports must be linked to a place, which in turn must be linked to a transition. Places linked to a mandatory port cannot be deleted or removed. When adding a new transition, all places linked to a mandatory input/output are already displayed.

- **Optional**  
 Optional ports are displayed with a ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button next to each of them. By clicking the ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button a new place is added, which can in turn be linked to a new transition. For detailed information about adding new actions, see [Create an action](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-an-action).

## Actions

> ![Action](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/AddAction.png "[Action]")

Author: Bild muss hier aus Prozess sein!

> Actions, or process actions, are the individual activities being executed in the workflow process and are represented by a rectangle.

Author: Wo ist der Unterschied zum ersten Satz im näcshtenbAbschnitt? Vielleicht zusammenführen?

A process action is the actual execution of a transition  configured in a workflow. As such, a process action can be successful or faulty depending on its execution. If an error occurs, a process action can be retried if the underlying cause has been fixed, which results in a re-execution of the process action. Moreover, if multiple tokens move through the workflow, every token is processed in its own process action. As a result, a transition can be associated with multiple process actions, depending of the number of tokens running through it.

## Tokens

![Tokens](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Tokens.png "[Tokens]")

A token is a container carrying data needed to execute an action, for example a number or a document.

The *Processes* menu entry displays a diagram of any process taking place in real time and a list of all actions being executed in the selected process. For detailed information about tracking a workflow process, see [Track workflow process](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/02_TrackWorkflowProcess.md).

> A process is started with a single token at the start place, which will be input in an action to be executed. In turn, an action may output several tokens, which will become inputs for subsequent actions. It is therefore possible that a place contains several tokens, for example, several delivery notes issued for different parts of a same order. Each token will then be processed separately, that means, that the subsequent actions will be executed once for each token available.

Author: Hier nochmal deutlicher den Unterschied herausstellen:
1. mehrere Tokens können eine Action durchlaufen, z.B. mehrere delivery notes.
2. wenn ein Token eine Action durchläuft, können daraus mehrere, verschiedene Daten in unterschiedlichen output ports ausgegeben werden, sprich ein token rein, mehrere Tokens raus.

> The workflow process view displays the actions in different colors depending on their current status:
> 
>   - *Ready*
>   - *In Progress*
>   - *Error*
>   - *Done*
>   - *Dead*
>   - *Suspended*
>   - *Aborted*

Author: ```suggestion
```

Info hier überflüssig

For detailed information about the process actions, see [Process actions](/ActindoWorkFlow/UserInterface/04a_ProcessActions.md).

> Next to the status of each action, a number is displayed. This number refers to the number of tokens processed in this action, and it depends on the action status and the number of tokens received. For example, if an action displays the message *Done 1*, this means that the action has already been executed and that 1 token has been processed.

Author: die zahl wird nur angezeigt bei actions, die entweder den status in progress, done oder error haben -> mindestens 1 token muss schon in die action gelaufen sein.

A place can also contain a black square displaying a number. This number specifies the number of tokens waiting to be processed at that place. This could happen, for example, because a token running in parallel has not been received at a particular stage of the process, but also because all tokens have been processed and are waiting for further action at the end place.

## Start and end place

![Start and end place](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Workflow.png "[Start and end place]")

Every workflow starts with a single start place and ends with a single end place, which are a special type of places.

The start place can only hold one token. A token is a container carrying data, which is needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more or less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flows through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).

> The end place is the final result of all actions executed in the workflow and can contain any number of tokens, but at least one. A process is marked as *Done* when all tokens have reached the end place. For detailed information about creating the start and end places, see [Create a workflow](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-a-workflow).

Author: ```suggestion
The end place is the final result of all actions executed in the workflow and can contain any number of tokens, but at least one. A process is marked as *Done* when all tokens have reached the end place. ```

> The end place is the final result of all actions executed in the workflow and can contain any number of tokens, but at least one. A process is marked as *Done* when all tokens have reached the end place. For detailed information about creating the start and end places, see [Create a workflow](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-a-workflow).

Author: Gehören die beiden infos nicht eher in die Abschnitte Start/End place?

# Workflow and process elements

![Workflow](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Workflow.png "[Workflow]")

The *Workflows* module allows customers to model their own processes to match their companies structure. Such a workflow consists of a number of fixed elements that are chained together, each of them having specific characteristics. These elements are used to design the workflow, which can be edited as necessary according to customer needs. For detailed information, see [Manage workflows](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md).

A workflow runs from a fixed start point to a fixed end point, which can be in turn linked to another workflow. A workflow must contain at least one action between the start and the end point, which are a special type of places. The actions are linked through places with each other, connecting the corresponding action input and output ports. All these elements are described more in detail below.

The *Workflows* module is linked to different system modules and plugins, such as *Invoicing*, *Email*, *OmniChannels*, *Tasks*, among others. The actions available to create workflows depend on the modules installed in the system.

> Since business processes, and the workflows that map them, evolve over time, workflows can be versioned. While every workflow can be uniquely identified through its key, there may be any number of versions of it. However, at a given point in time, only **one** of those versions may be published. When a process for a given workflow is to be started, that published version of the workflow is used. This allows to keep modelling a certain workflow without interrupting the daily business.

Author: ```suggestion
Since business processes, and the workflows that map them, evolve over time, workflows can be versioned. While every workflow can be uniquely identified through its key, there may be any number of versions of it. However, at a given point in time, only one of those versions may be published. When a process for a given workflow is to be started, that published version of the workflow is used. This allows to keep modelling a certain workflow without interrupting the daily business.
```
keine hervorhebung von wörtern (nur ui elemente)

> [comment]: <> (Relevante Info? This module is programmed on the basis of the Petri-Net modelling language. + kleine Erklärung? Hier oder in Overview Datei?)

Author: Brauchen wir meiner Meinung nach nicht noch explizit erwähnen - wir beschreiben das Modell im Folgenden ja sowieso...

## Places

![Place](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Place.png "[Place]")

A place is an intermediate stage in the workflow and is represented by circle, usually provided with inward and/or outward arcs.

> Places serve as link between two actions, joining an output port from the previous action to the corresponding input port of the following action. Places linking mandatory input/output ports are displayed by default and cannot be deleted. Additional places can be added by clicking on the ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button next to the optional input/output port. For detailed information about the types of input/output ports, see [Input and output ports](#input-and-output-ports).

Author: Müssen wir noch ergänzen, dass places immer verbunden sein müssen, da es sonst zu einem Fehler kommt, bzw. der process gar nicht angestoßen wird?

> A place can hold any number of tokens, including none. A token is a container carrying data, which are needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more of less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flow through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).

Author: ```suggestion
A place can hold any number of tokens, including none. A token is a container carrying data, which are is needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more of less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flows through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).
```

![Settings side bar](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/SettingsSideBar01.png "[Settings side bar]")

The place settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the place settings. The following fields are displayed:

  - *Key*  
  Place key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be system wide unique.

  - *Data container*  
  Use this field to define the data type to be used in the place. If necessary, click the ![Delete](/Assets/Icons/Cross02.png "[Delete]") (Delete) button to display the whole list of available data types. Enter a search text for the desired data type. The list of actions is filtered for your search text as you type. Select the ![Radio button](/Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radio button]") (Radio button) corresponding to the appropriate option.

## Actions

![Action](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/AddAction.png "[Action]")

Actions are the individual activities being executed in the workflow and are represented by a rectangle. Actions serve as building blocks, which are chained together through places, to configure a workflow.

> All actions contain a certain, predefined number of input and output ports, at least 1 of each, which can be mandatory or optional. For detailed information about the types of input/output ports, see [Input and output ports](#input-and-output-ports). For an action to be executable, all **connected** inputs and outputs, mandatory or optional, must be fed with data.

Author: ```suggestion
All actions contain a certain, predefined number of input and output ports, at least 1 of each, which can be mandatory or optional. For detailed information about the types of input/output ports, see [Input and output ports](#input-and-output-ports). For an action to be executable, all connected inputs and outputs, mandatory or optional, must be fed with data.
```
s.o.

The actions available to create workflows depend on the modules installed in the system. Every API end point of the modules automatically becomes available as an action and can be used in any workflow. However, you can also build your own actions independent from the API.

> [comment]: <> (Ich finde die Benennung API endpoint etwas verwirrend hier, denn wir haben soeben über start/end point als start/end place gesprochen. Alternative Bennenung?)

Author: Umbenennung von start/end point in start/end place? Dann ist auch direkt klar, dass es sich um einen place handelt...

> It must be differentiated between a workflow action and a process action. A workflow action acts as a building block to create a workflow to model a company process, whereas a process action is the actual execution of the configured workflow action. As such, a process action can be successful or erroneous depending on its execution. If an error occurs, a process action can be retried if the underlying cause has been fixed, which results in a new process action. If multiple tokens move through the workflow, every token is processed in its own process action. As a result, any workflow action can be associated with multiple process actions, depending of the number of tokens running through it.

Author: ```suggestion
It must be distinguished between a workflow action and a process action. A workflow action acts as a building block to create a workflow to model a company process, whereas a process action is the actual execution of the configured workflow action. As such, a process action can be successful or faulty depending on its execution. If an error occurs, a process action can be retried if the underlying cause has been fixed, which results in a new process action. If multiple tokens move through the workflow, every token is processed in its own process action. As a result, any workflow action can be associated with multiple process actions, depending of the number of tokens running through it.
```
Gefällt mir sehr gut, dieser Absatz :)

[commment]: <> (Evtl. kürzer/weniger Details?)

When adding a new action, all compatible input and output ports are included. Mandatory input ports are already displayed and linked to a place, whereas optional ones are displayed with a ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button.

When clicking an action, it becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

![Settings side bar](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/SettingsSideBar02.png "[Settings side bar]")

The action settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the action settings. The following fields are displayed:

>   - (Action label and name)  
>   The action label is an action identification tag and can be defined by user. The action name is a system wide predefined denomination of the activity to be performed and is read-only.

Author: ```suggestion
  ```
Keine UI Elemente

  - *Key*  
   Action key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be system wide unique.

  - *Label*  

>   Action label. Click this field to edit the action label. The action label is changed both in the settings side bar and in the diagram.

Author: ```suggestion
  Action label defined by the user. It can be used to specify or simplify the action name. When editing the action label, it is changed both, at the top of the settings side bar and in the action rectangle in the diagram.
```

  - *Queue type*  
  Click the drop-down list to select the applicable queue type. For detailed information about queue types, see [Configure the queue types](/ActindoWorkFlow/Integration/01_ConfigureQueueTypes.md).

  - *Task event*  
  Click the drop-down list to select the applicable task event.

  > [Info] This option is linked to the *Tasks* module. It is only displayed if the *Tasks* module is installed and the user has the necessary rights. The *ActindoWorkflow Process Execution Failed* task is preconfigured by default. A list of all existing task events is displayed in the *Events* menu entry of the *Tasks* module.

  - *Configuration*  
  Depending on the action, there might be configuration options, for instance, defining an email where a receipt or document must be sent. Editing the action configuration may require basic programming knowledge.

  > [Info] Most actions are preconfigured and do not include configuration options. In this case, the *Configuration* section is not displayed.

  - *Static inputs*  

>   All unlinked inputs are listed in this section. Static inputs can be used to configure static values for certain inputs. They can be defined by the user clicking the ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button. Only valid JSON values are accepted. When edited, static inputs display a small arc without a place in front of them in the workflow diagram.

Author: ```suggestion
  All unlinked inputs are listed in this section. Static inputs can be used to configure static values for certain inputs. They can be defined by the user clicking the ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button. Only valid JSON values are accepted. When used, a static input is displayed by a small arrow in front of the input port in the workflow diagram.
```

>   > [Info] Normally, all tokens for the action execution are taken from the places connected to its input ports. However, static values can be configured for certain inputs. This way, if an action has configured a static input on one or more of its input ports, it will behave as if there was a place connected to that input port that always contains one token (containing whatever value is statically configured). Nevertheless, it is still necessary to have **at least one** "actual" place with an "actual" token in order to make that action executable.

Author: ```suggestion
  > [Info] Normally, all tokens for the action execution are taken from the places connected to its input ports. However, static values can be configured for certain inputs. This way, if an action has configured a static input on one or more of its input ports, it will behave as if there was a place connected to that input port that always contains one token (containing whatever value is statically configured). Nevertheless, it is still necessary to have at least one "actual" place with an "actual" token in order to make that action executable.
```
s.o.
was meinst du mit "actual" ?

## Arcs

![Arcs](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/ArrowInput.png "[Arcs]")

> The arcs are the arrows connecting a place with the input and output port(s) of a action to model the flow of information.

Author: ```suggestion
The arcs are the links connecting a place with the input and output port(s) of an action to model the flow of information. The arcs are represented by arrows. Arcs connecting a place to an input port are called *incoming arcs*, arc connecting an output port to a place are called *outcoming arcs*.
```

## Input and output ports

![Input and output ports](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/NewPlace.png "[Input and output ports]")

All actions contain a certain, predefined number of input and output ports, at least one of each. They are defined with a descriptive name, such as origin, data or destination.

Input ports are positioned to the left of the action and output ports are positioned to the right of the action. Both are represented by a square.

> Both input and output ports can be of two types:

Author: ```suggestion
Both, input and output ports, can be of two types:
```

- **Mandatory**  
  Mandatory ports must be linked to a place, which in turn must be linked to an action. Places linked to a mandatory port cannot be deleted or removed. When adding a new action, mandatory input/output places are already displayed.

- **Optional**  
 Optional ports are displayed with a ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button next to each of them. By clicking the ![Add](/Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button a new place is added, which can in turn be linked to a new action. For detailed information about adding new actions, see [Create an action](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-an-action).

## Tokens

![Tokens](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Tokens.png "[Tokens]")

[comment]: <> (Token belongs in Processes - Rename file to WorkflowProcessesElements?)

A token is a container carrying data needed to execute an action, for example a number or a document.

> The *Processes* menu entry displays a read-only view of any process taking place in real time and a list of all actions being executed in the selected process. For detailed information about tracking a workflow process, see [Track workflow process](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/02_TrackWorkflowProcess.md).

Author: ```suggestion
The *Processes* menu entry displays a diagram of any process taking place in real time and a list of all actions being executed in the selected process. For detailed information about tracking a workflow process, see [Track workflow process](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/02_TrackWorkflowProcess.md).
```

A process is started with a single token at the start point, which will be input in an action to be executed. In turn, an action may output several tokens, which will become inputs for subsequent actions. It is therefore possible that a place contains several tokens, for example, several delivery notes issued for different parts of a same order. Each token will then be processed separately, that means, that the subsequent actions will be executed once for each token available.

[comment]: <> (Prozess wird gestartet mit einem einzigen Initialtoken - Wissentransfer ca. 0:44:45)

> The workflow process view displays the actions in different colours depending on their current status:

Author: ```suggestion
The workflow process view displays the actions in different colors depending on their current status:
```
AE -> am besten alle dokumente mal durchsuchen, ich glaube, "colour" kam öfters mal vor...

For detailed information about the different status meaning, see [Processes](/ActindoWorkFlow/UserInterface/03a_Processes.md).

[comment]: <> (Evtl. genaueres Link?)

Next to the status of each action, a number is displayed. This number refers to the number of tokens processed in this action, and it depends on the action status and the number of tokens received. For example, if an action displays the message *Done 1*, this means that the action has already been executed and that 1 token has been processed.

A place can also contain a black square displaying a number. This number specifies the number of tokens waiting to be processed at that place. This could happen, for example, because a token running in parallel has not been received at a particular stage of the process, but also because all tokens have been processed and are waiting for further action at the end point.

[comment]: <> (Review!)

## Start and end point

![Start and end point](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/Workflow.png "[Start and end point]")

Every workflow starts with a single start point and ends with a single end point, which are a special type of places.

> The start point can only hold one token. A token is a container carrying data, which are needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more of less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flow through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).

Author: ```suggestion
The start point can only hold one token. A token is a container carrying data, which is needed to execute a subsequent action. The place data type is always defined, more of less specifically, so it is possible to recognize the kind of data that flow through it. For detailed information, see [Tokens](#tokens).
```

> The end point is the final result of all actions executed in the workflow and can contain any number of tokens, but at least one. A new subprocess can be linked subsequently to the end point. For detailed information about creating the start and end points, see [Create a workflow](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-a-workflow).

Author: ```suggestion
The end point is the final result of all actions executed in the workflow and can contain any number of tokens, but at least one. A process is marked as *Done*, as soon as one token has reached the end point. A new subprocess can be linked subsequently to the end point. For detailed information about creating the start and end points, see [Create a workflow](/ActindoWorkFlow/Operation/01_ManageWorkflows.md#create-a-workflow).
```

### Start point

![Start point](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/StartPoint.png "[Start point]")

> The start point is the initial stage of the workflow. It is represented by a circle with an outward arc pointing towards an input port of the first action. Similarly to a place, when clicking it, the start point becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

Author: ```suggestion
The start point is the initial stage of the workflow. It is represented by a circle with an incoming arc pointing towards an input port of the first action. Similarly to a place, when clicking it, the start point becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.
```

The start point settings side bar is located to the right of the workspace and allows to define the start point settings. The following fields are displayed:

  - *Key*  
  Start point key. This field is read-only. The key is required for API access and must be system wide unique.

  - *Data container*  
  Use this field to define the data type to be used in the start point. If necessary, click the ![Delete](/Assets/Icons/Cross02.png "[Delete]") (Delete) button to display the whole list of available data types. Enter a search text for the desired data type. The list of actions is filtered for your search text as you type. Select the ![Radio button](/Assets/Icons/Radiobutton.png "[Radio button]") (Radio button) corresponding to the appropriate option.

### End point

![End point](/Assets/Screenshots/ActindoWorkFlow/Workflows/EndPoint.png "[End point]")

> The end point is the final stage of the workflow. It is represented by a circle with a inward arrow coming from one or more actions being executed in the last stage(s) of the workflow. Similarly to a place, when clicking it, the start point becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.

Author: ```suggestion
The end point is the final stage of the workflow. It is represented by a circle with an outcoming arrow coming from one or more actions being executed in the last stage(s) of the workflow. Similarly to a place, when clicking it, the start point becomes highlighted and the corresponding element settings are displayed in the settings side bar.
```
